{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt ??};}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt ??};}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf12 \sbasedon10 
FollowedHyperlink;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1269463\rsid1274875\rsid2898824\rsid3231516\rsid3539049\rsid4935988\rsid6303952\rsid6498543\rsid7431280\rsid7548465\rsid8592079\rsid8663077\rsid9519924\rsid9728836\rsid9854801\rsid10385777\rsid10954109\rsid11026946
\rsid11403448\rsid12281205}{\info{\title Requirements}{\author Office 2004 Test Drive User}{\operator Office 2004 Test Drive User}{\creatim\yr2009\mo5\dy14\hr15\min50}{\revtim\yr2011\mo7\dy28\hr18\min9}{\version25}{\edmins460}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords1566}
{\nofchars8930}{\nofcharsws10966}{\vern24833}}\margl864\margr864\margt720\margb864 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin864\dgvorigin720\dghshow0
\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\rsidroot9442178 \fet0\sectd 
\sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid10954109\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10954109 \lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 Rationale: }{\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 
The purpose of this assignment is to obtain a multi-sequence alignment (MSA) with orthologs of your protein and also investigate a few different aspects. This may be easy or not so, depending on what is already out there in terms of available precalculate
d MSAs. You will also learn where to find information like secondary structure and amino acid composition. Finally, you will compare the predicted secondary structure to the crystallographic one to get a sense of how well prediction algorithms work.
\par \tab Specif
ically, you will find five orthologous sequences that has varying sequence identities with your protein, ranging 30-90% overall. These sequences should then be aligned with your sequence in an MSA- do NOT align them individually. You will then examine the
 alignments in two different regions of the protein: in the most conserved 70 residues and in the least conserved 70 residues.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 FAQs
\par 1. How do I generate the multisequence alignments (MSAs)?
\par }{\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 \tab Once you assemble your six sequences, there are several MSA tools
 to align them with (see http://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/sequence.html). Do NOT USE BLAST one at a time! The power of MSAs is the information from the six sequences rather than the two. The BLAST alignments will be less accurate.
\par \tab Pssst, if you are lucky, one already exists for your protein family. If you find an MSA for your protein\rquote s orthologs, but it doesn\rquote t contain your protein, you can align it \ldblquote by hand\rdblquote 
 STARTING with a BLAST alignment or by using the available MSA tools. Needless to say, an existing MSA solves the problem of having finding orthologs. There are several sources:
\par a) The OLD VERSION of the cluster of orthologous groups (COG) website has Clustal alignments of a number of conserved protein families. The advantage here is that the COG members have
 been chosen to maximize the range of sequence diversity. The trick is finding YOUR protein- it might not be in the COG.The alignments (usually more than 20 proteins) are available in text format that you can cut and paste right off the page. They are arr
anged so that the most related sequences are closest to each other. You can track the protein IDs because they are labeled, but how the labels relate to database accessions numbers is a mystery to me. You will have to sort this out (one HINT: use BLAST).

\par b) Specialized sites for particular proteins or families may also have alignments.
\par c)The various domain databases SCOP, Pfam offer sequence alignments for the conserved regions but not necessarily the entire protein, but this might be enough to get your 70 residues.
\par d) Structure papers related to or referenced in your entry often have MSAs in them, although perhaps not 6 total sequences. But it could be a start if 1)-3) are unavailable.
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 2. Where do I find the sequences?
\par }{\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 See above, but it may be the case that 
there is no existing MSA. This will mean that you will have to track down homologs by key word searching sequence data bases, annotations of genome sequences or by using BLAST. The disadvantage of BLAST is that its limits the divergence of sequences. You 
can overcome this by doing sequential searches with each homolog found to reach deeper into the sequence family, but what a pain.
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 3. How do I measure the percent identity?
\par }{\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 You can use a BLAST alignment as an approximate % but really you should count the identities by hand or by some other program. However, for the 70 residue stretches you can count by hand.}{
\b\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 
\par 4. How do I find out the secondary structure in the crystal?
\par }{\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 Aha, a little searching through the \ldblquote tabs\rdblquote  of the PDB entry page will get you there.}{\b\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 
\par 5. How do I calculate all those things (PI, fraction different residues\u8230\'c9 etc)?
\par }{\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 Tools are there folks! ExPASy has some.
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 6. Where do I get 2\u730\'fb structure predictions from?
\par }{\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 Ho, Ho Ho. There are a number of simple predictors on the web-just GOOGLE your way there.
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 
\par Information Source Start List
\par NCBI: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/
\par *Protein Data Bank (PDB): http://www.rcsb.org/pdb/home/home.do
\par PROSITE: http://www.expasy.ch/prosite/
\par Pfam: http://pfam.janelia.org/
\par SCOP: http://scop.mrc-lmb.cam.ac.uk/scop/index.html
\par ExPasy: http://www.expasy.org/
\par COGs: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/COG/
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 Alignment tools: }{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 
 HYPERLINK "http://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/sequence.html" }{\b\insrsid11403448 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000170000002900000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e006500620069002e00610063002e0075006b002f0054006f006f006c0073002f00730065007100750065006e00630065002e00680074006d006c000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b
5200000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e006500620069002e00610063002e0075006b002f0054006f006f006c0073002f00730065007100750065006e00630065002e00680074006d006c00000000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs15\b\fs28\ul\cf2\insrsid10954109\charrsid7431280 
http://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/sequence.html}}}{\b\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid12281205\charrsid2898824 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid10954109\charrsid6498543 \page }{\b\fs28\insrsid9728836\charrsid6498543 Specific Instructions
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12281205 {\b\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 \bullet  PROTEIN NAME AND ORGANISM }{\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 just like before
\par }{\b\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 \bullet  SEQUENCES
\par }{\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543  DATABASE ACCESSION NUMBERS  }{\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 just like before}{\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543 
\par OVERALL SEQUENCE PROPERTIES (use entire sequence) }{\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 fill in the blanks- you might have to look at the amino acid compositions and add up the fractions by hand.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543  SEQUENCE OF RESIDUES THAT ARE DEFINED IN THE STRUCTURE
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12281205 {\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543 
As you might have noticed in Assignment 1, the residue ranges in the coordinate file are often less than the whole protein or there might be slight differences at the termini due to purification tags and protease cleavage sites. Further, the res
idue numbers in the coordinate file may NOT match the protein sequence numbers. This part of the assignment is to make sure that you have a correspondence between the structure and the accepted sequence numbering. The easiest way to check this is to 1) ch
eck the pdb file for beginning and ending residue ranges and 2) to align the FASTA PDB sequence with the UNIPROT sequence for the entire protein. }{\ul\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 
In the space provided use the correct sequence numbering from UNIPROT to designate what is in the crystal structure}{\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 FIVE ORTHOLOGS FOR MULTI-SEQUENCE ALIGNMENT
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12281205 {\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 Fill in the blanks. The % identities can be taken fro
m counting the matches in the MSA OR using BLAST to align the ortholog with the PDB sequence and take the identities from the alignment output. In general, the MSA identity is higher than the BLAST. Sometimes the alignments do not include all of the resid
ues so make sure you give the range of the aligned sequences. For really low identity, you have trouble getting BLAST to align with your protein. In this case, you will need to base your %identity on the MSA, which will be need to be done by hand. }{
\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12281205 {\b\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 \bullet \~MULTISEQUENCE ALIGNMENTS
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12281205 {\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 Once you have these, then read this (see above).
\par }{\b\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 Alignments of regions that are the most conserved- }{\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 
by looking at the number of identical residues in the alignment, give the most conserved 70 residues, that is the stretch that has the greater number of identical residues present in ALL 6 SEQUENCES.
\par }{\b\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 -Alignments of regions that are the most diverse }{\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 find the region with the most differences between chains. This will be difficult without an MSA.
\par When formatting alignments you need to use Courier or Courier New font- these are the only ones with even kearning for each character- otherwise the sequences will no
t line up nicely. 70 residues at 11 pt should fit on a single text line. If not, try 10 pt. No spaces between residues. 
\par Give the crystal structure sequence on the last line and the most divergent sequence on the first line and proceed down with greater id
entity. Underline the residues in the bottom sequence that are conserved through all 5 sequences. Also indicate actual and predicted 2\u730\'fb structures below this.}{\b\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12281205 {\b\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 Example}{\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12281205 {\f2\fs22\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 5    KGVILERHDTPAG...
\par 4    RGVLLERKDSPAG...
\par 3    RGVVLERKDSPGG
\par 2    RGIVLQRKESPGG
\par 1    R}{\f2\fs22\ul\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 G}{\f2\fs22\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 II}{\f2\fs22\ul\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 L}{\f2\fs22\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 QKKES}{\f2\fs22\ul\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 P}{
\f2\fs22\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 G}{\f2\fs22\ul\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 G}{\f2\fs22\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 ...}{\f2\fs22\ul\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 
\par 
\par }{\f2\fs22\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 2\u730\'fb   TTBBBBBBBB---...
\par Pred TTBBB-------T...
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12281205 {\ul\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10954109 {\b\fs28\insrsid9728836\charrsid6498543 \page }{\b\fs32\insrsid9728836\charrsid10954109 Assignment }{\b\fs32\insrsid10954109\charrsid10954109 2}{
\b\fs32\insrsid3231516\charrsid10954109 -}{\b\fs32\insrsid1269463\charrsid8592079 Multisequence Alignments}{\b\fs32\insrsid9728836\charrsid8592079 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs28\insrsid9728836\charrsid6498543 \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Group }{\b\fs28\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543 Name __________
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid3231516\charrsid6498543 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543 Members (Signature)}{\b\fs28\insrsid9728836\charrsid6498543 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9728836 {\b\fs28\insrsid9728836\charrsid6498543 _____________________________________
\par _____________________________________
\par _____________________________________
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid11403448\charrsid6498543 (_____________________________________)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs28\insrsid6303952\charrsid6498543 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543 Protein _______________________________
\par  }{\b\fs28\insrsid9728836\charrsid6498543 
\par 
\par 1) This cover page must be attached.
\par 2) All of the following fields must be filled in }{\b\fs28\ul\insrsid9728836\charrsid3539049 using a word processor}{\b\fs28\insrsid9728836\charrsid6498543 . You can add as much text as you need.
\par 3) Use additional pages if necessary.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid9728836\charrsid6498543 
\par \page }{\b\fs26\insrsid9728836\charrsid12281205 \bullet  PROTEIN NAME AND ORGANISM
\par }{\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543 
\par }{\b\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 \bullet \~SEQUENCES 
\par }{\b\insrsid1274875\charrsid6498543 
\par }{\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543  }{\b\insrsid9728836\charrsid6498543 DATABASE ACCESSION NUMBERS
\par \tab }{\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543 -}{\b\insrsid9728836\charrsid6498543 PDB accession number_____________ (e.g. 1S1M)
\par \tab }{\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543 -UNIPROT}{\b\insrsid9728836\charrsid6498543  accession number______________
\par }{\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543 OVERALL SEQUENCE PROPERTIES (use entire sequence)
\par \tab Number of residues___________________
\par \tab pI ____________ How calculated? (What program?)________________
\par \tab Fraction of acidic residues __________
\par \tab Fraction of basic residues ___________
\par \tab Fraction of non-polar side chains (A,V,I,L,M,F,W,Y,C) ___________
\par \tab Fraction polar side-chains (H,K,R,E,D,Q,N,S,T) ____________
\par \tab Fraction conformational sidechains (P,G)______________
\par \tab 
\par }{\b\insrsid1274875\charrsid6498543 
\par }{\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543 
\par  }{\b\insrsid9728836\charrsid6498543 SEQUENCE}{\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543  OF RESIDUES THAT ARE DEFINED IN THE STRUCTURE}{\b\insrsid9728836\charrsid6498543 
\par }{\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543 \tab -}{\b\insrsid9728836\charrsid6498543 Accession number _________________(if from PDB file, use PDB accession)
\par }{\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543 \tab -Sequence residue number range relative to the }{\b\ul\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 naturally-occurring sequence }{\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205   
\par \tab _________TO _________  (NOTE THAT THE PDB SEQUENCE NUMBER MAY NOT \tab -BE THE SAME AS THE NATURAL ONE).
\par }{\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid6498543 \tab -}{\b\insrsid9728836\charrsid6498543 Sequence (one letter code, can be pasted in)
\par }{\insrsid1274875 
\par }{\insrsid12281205 
\par }{\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 FIVE ORTHOLOGS FOR MULTI-SEQUENCE ALIGNMENT
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12281205 {\b\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 #1 Organism ______________________ Accession number____________
\par %Identity__________ Residue range in alignment _____________
\par 
\par # 2 Organism ______________________ Accession number____________
\par %Identity__________ Residue range in alignment ______________
\par 
\par #3 Organism ______________________ Accession number____________
\par %Identity__________ Residue range in alignment ______________
\par 
\par # 4 Organism ______________________ Accession number____________
\par %Identity__________ Residue range in alignment ______________
\par 
\par #5 Organism ______________________ Accession number____________
\par %Identity__________ Residue range in alignment ______________
\par }{\b\fs26\insrsid1274875\charrsid12281205 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 
\par \bullet \~MULTISEQUENCE ALIGNMENTS
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12281205 {\b\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 -Alignments in regions of  70 residues highly conserved region (use Courier 11 pt)}{
\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 \tab }{\fs26\ul\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 Underline}{\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205  (using the crystal structure sequence) the conserved residues
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12281205 {\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 \tab Below sequence, indicate 2\u730\'fb structure for EACH residue as determined from \tab 
crystal structure (H=helix, B=beta strand, }{\fs26\insrsid1274875\charrsid12281205 T}{\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 =}{\fs26\insrsid1274875\charrsid12281205 turn}{\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 , \ldblquote -\ldblquote 
 for undefined). Under \tab this, put the PREDICTED 2\u730\'fb structure- do they match the actual one.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12281205 {\b\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 \tab -What is the % identity for this region
\par \tab -What is the function of conserved residues in this region?
\par \tab -How did you find this out?
\par  SEQUENCE ALIGNMENT (most divergent -> least divergent, structure sequence }{\b\fs26\ul\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 last)}{\b\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12281205 {\b\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 -Alignments of regions that are the most diverse region (use Courier 11 pt).
\par \tab }{\fs26\ul\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 Underline}{\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205  (using the crystal structure sequence) the conserved residues
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sa60\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12281205 {\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 \tab Below sequence, indicate 2\u730\'fb structure for EACH residue as determined from \tab 
crystal structure (H=helix, B=beta strand, }{\fs26\insrsid1274875\charrsid12281205 T}{\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 =}{\fs26\insrsid1274875\charrsid12281205 turn}{\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 , \ldblquote -\ldblquote 
 for undefined). Under \tab this, put the PREDICTED 2\u730\'fb structure- do they match the actual one.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12281205 {\b\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 \tab -What is the % identity for this region
\par \tab -What is the function of conserved residues in this region (if any?)
\par \tab -How did you find this out?
\par  SEQUENCE ALIGNMENT (most divergent -> least divergent, structure sequence }{\b\fs26\ul\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 last)}{\ul\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 
\par }{\b\fs26\insrsid1274875\charrsid12281205 \bullet  QUESTIONS: 
\par 1) How does the predicted secondary structure compare to the actual secondary structure? _________% correct (=number of correctly predicted residues/70)
\par 2) Do you think that this is a good, useless or harmful level of correctness? Why?
\par 3) Explain why you think the prediction program performed in this way?}{\b\fs26\insrsid12281205\charrsid12281205 
\par }}