{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red17\green85\blue204;\red34\green34\blue34;\red33\green33\blue33;
\red48\green48\blue48;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c6667\c33333\c80000;\csgenericrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\csgenericrgb\c12941\c12941\c12941;
\csgenericrgb\c18824\c18824\c18824;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\vieww12240\viewh15840\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Assignment 2: Sequence Analysis of 
\f1\b Ribose-5-Phosphate Isomerase\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'95 PROTEIN NAME AND ORGANISM\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 	\ul  Ribose-5-Phosphate Isomerase in E. Coli \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \'95 SEQUENCES 
\f0\b0 \

\f1\b  DATABASE ACCESSION NUMBERS\
	-PDB accession number (e.g. 1S1M): 
\f0\b0 \ul 1LKZ\

\f1\b \ulnone 	-UNIPROT accession number: 
\f0\b0 \ul P0A7Z0
\f1\b \
\ulnone OVERALL SEQUENCE PROPERTIES (use entire sequence)\
	Number of residues: 
\f0\b0 \ul 219
\f1\b \ulnone \
	pI 
\f0\b0 \ul 5.225
\f1\b \ulnone 		 How calculated? (What program?)
\f0\b0  \ul Protpi
\f1\b \ulnone  \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.protpi.ch/Calculator/ProteinTool#Results"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://www.protpi.ch/Calculator/ProteinTool#Results}}) \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Fraction of acidic residues: 
\f0\b0 \ul 11.41%
\f1\b \ulnone \
	Fraction of basic residues: 
\f0\b0 \ul 10.51%\

\f1\b \ulnone 	Fraction of non-polar side chains (A,V,I,L,M,F,W,Y,C): 
\f0\b0 \ul 46.13%\

\f1\b \ulnone 	Fraction polar side-chains (H,K,R,E,D,Q,N,S,T): 
\f0\b0 \ul 38.36%\

\f1\b \ulnone 	Fraction conformational sidechains (P,G): 
\f0\b0 \ul 15.52%\ulnone \

\f1\b  SEQUENCE OF RESIDUES THAT ARE DEFINED IN THE STRUCTURE\
	-Accession number 
\f0\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 P0A7Z0
\f1\b \ulnone  \cf0 (if from PDB file, use PDB accession)\
	-Sequence residue number range relative to the \ul naturally-occurring sequence: \ulnone   \
	
\f0\b0 \ul 1 TO 219
\f1\b \ulnone  
\f0\b0 \ul  (Same sequence for PDB and UNIPROT)\

\f1\b \ulnone 	-Sequence (one letter code, can be pasted in)\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 MTQDELKKAV GWAALQYVQP GTIVGVGTGS TAAHFIDALG TMKGQIEGAV SSSDASTEKL KSLGIHVFDL NEVDSLGIYV DGADEINGHM QMIKGGGAAL TREKIIASVA EKFICIADAS KQVDILGKFP LPVEVIPMAR SAVARQLVKL GGRPEYRQGV VTDNGNVILD VHGMEILDPI AMENAINAIP GVVTVGLFAN RGADVALIGT PDGVKTIVK\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://embnet.vital-it.ch/cgi-bin/LALIGN_form_parser"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://embnet.vital-it.ch/cgi-bin/LALIGN_form_parser}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 FIVE ORTHOLOGS FOR MULTI-SEQUENCE ALIGNMENT\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\cf0 #1 Organism 
\f2\i\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Pyrococcus horikoshii
\f1\i0\b \cf0 \ulnone   Accession number 
\f0\b0 \ul O50083
\f1\b \
\ulnone %Identity 
\f0\b0 \ul 40.8%
\f1\b \ulnone   Residue range in alignment 
\f0\b0 \ul 228 aa overlap\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ulc0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \ulnone # 2 Organism: 
\f2\i\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Streptococcus mutans serotype c
\f1\i0\b \cf0 \ulnone  Accession number 
\f0\b0 \ul Q8DTT9\

\f1\b \ulnone %Identity 
\f0\b0 \ul 41.7%
\f1\b \ulnone  Residue range in alignment 
\f0\b0 \ul 223 aa overlap\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 #3 Organism 
\f0\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Thermus thermophilus
\f1\b \cf0 \ulc0  \ulnone Accession number 
\f0\b0 \ul Q72J47
\f1\b \
\ulnone %Identity 
\f0\b0 \ul 39.9% 
\f1\b \ulnone Residue range in alignment 
\f0\b0 \ul 223 aa overlap\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 # 4 Organism 
\f0\b0 \ul homo sapiens
\f1\b \ulnone  Accession number 
\f0\b0 \ul P49247
\f1\b \
\ulnone %Identity 
\f0\b0 \ul 36.6%
\f1\b \ulnone  Residue range in alignment 
\f0\b0 \ul 224 aa overlap\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 #5 Organism 
\f2\i\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Bartonella henselae
\f0\i0 \cf0 \ulc0  
\f1\b \ulnone Accession number 
\f0\b0 \ul Q6G3V6\

\f1\b \ulnone %Identity 
\f0\b0 \ul 37.6%
\f1\b \ulnone  Residue range in alignment 
\f0\b0 \ul 210 aa overlap
\f1\b \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'95 MULTISEQUENCE ALIGNMENTS\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf0 -Alignments in regions of  70 residues highly conserved region (use Courier 11 pt)
\f0\b0 	
\f1\b \ul Underline\ulnone  (using the crystal structure sequence) the conserved residues. Below sequence, indicate 2\uc0\u730  structure for EACH residue as determined from crystal structure (H=helix, B=beta strand, T=turn, \'93-\'93 for undefined). Under this, put the PREDICTED 2\u730  structure- do they match the actual one. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 \

\f3\fs18 Residues 81-150\
8        9         10        11        12        13        14\
1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890 ID\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 DGADE\ulnone INGHMQM\ul IKG\ulnone G\ul G\ulnone AA\ul L\ulnone TR\ul EKI\ulnone IASVAEKFICIA\ul D\ulnone AS\ul K\ulnone QVDI\ul L\ulnone GKFPL\ul P\ulnone V\ul E\ulnone VIPMARSAVARQLVKL Seq\
B---BB-----BB-----HHHHHHHHHHHBBBBBBBBB-HHH--------BBBBB---HHHHHHHHHHHH 2\'92\
B----------BBB----HHHHHHHHHH---BBBBBBB-----------BBBBBBB---HHHHHHHHHH- Jpred4
\f0\fs20 \
\
\ul The predicted secondary structure does match the actual one, though missed very small regions of 2\'92 structure or misrepresented the termini of the secondary elements by a few residues.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 	-What is the % identity for this region \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Counting all semi-conserved or conserved residues, as defined by the Clustal multi-sequence alignment, gives a 45.7% identity.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \ulnone 	-What is the function of conserved residues in this region? \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Asp81, Asp84, and Lys94 are all known to be essential to enzyme activity. These residues are part of a divet in the molecule surface. That divet has a basic bottom (Lys94) surrounded by acidic \'93walls\'94 (the Asparagines). This suggests that the residues partake in an acid-base reaction for isomerization.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \ulnone 	-How did you find this out? \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 The publication describing crystallization (1) suggested this conclusion and verified it could be possible in E. Coli. An analysis of human RpiA gives an in-depth analysis of possible mechanism (2, see figure 8). In addition, we know from organic chemistry that sugar isomerizations often require a general base, so it makes sense that Lysine would be an important active-site residue. 
\fs18 \cf4 \ulc4 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf4 \ulnone (1)	Rangarajan ES, Sivaraman J, Matte A, Cygler M. Crystal structure of D-ribose-5-phosphate isomerase (RpiA) from Escherichia coli. Proteins. 2002 Sep 1;48(4):737-40. doi: 10.1002/prot.10203. PMID: 12211039.\
(2)	
\fs20 \cf5 Zhang, Rong guang et al. \'93Structure of Escherichia coli ribose-5-phosphate isomerase: a ubiquitous enzyme of the pentose phosphate pathway and the Calvin cycle.\'94 
\f2\i Structure (London, England : 1993)
\f0\i0  vol. 11,1 (2003): 31-42. doi:10.1016/s0969-2126(02)00933-4
\fs18 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b\fs20 \cf0  \
SEQUENCE ALIGNMENT (most divergent -> least divergent, structure sequence \ul last)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \ulnone -Alignments of regions that are the most diverse region (use Courier 11 pt).\
	
\f0\b0 \ul Underline\ulnone  (using the crystal structure sequence) the conserved residues\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa40\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 	Below sequence, indicate 2\uc0\u730  structure for EACH residue as determined from crystal structure (H=helix, B=beta strand, T=turn, \'93-\'93 for undefined). Under this, put the PREDICTED 2\u730  structure- do they match the actual one.\
\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f3\fs18 VPFGYRATLKAIA------DLGGEPELRMDGDEFYFTDGGHLIADCRFGPIGDPLGLHRALLEIPGVVET THET2\
VQYGAERLFREFEK------KGYKPSFREYDGVRFVTDMKNFIIDLDLGSIPDPIAFGNMLDHQVGVVEH STRMU\
IPQAWKAIIEELSI----FNAKAELRMGVNKDGPVITDNGNFIIDAKFPRIDDPLDMEIELNTIPGVIEN PYRHO\
IPMAYVPVSRAVSQ---KFGGVVELRMAVNKAGPVVTDNGNFILDWKFDRVHKWSEVNTAIKMIPGVVDT HUMAN\
NPFGIHATRIAIEKAADNLGLSGEITLRMNGDDPFKTDGGHFIFDAFWGRILQPKLLSEALLAIPGVVEH BARHE\
IPMARSAVARQLVK------LGGRPEYRQ----GVV\ul TD\ulnone NGNV\ul I\ulnone L\ul D\ulnone VHGMEILDPIAMENAINAIP\ul GV\ulnone VTV ECOLI\
\
13  14        15        16        17        18        19\
678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345\
IPMARSAVARQLVKLGGRPEYRQGVV\ul TD\ulnone NGNV\ul I\ulnone L\ul D\ulnone VHGMEILDPIAMENAINAIP\ul GV\ulnone VTV ECOLI\
---HHHHHHHHHHHHH-BBBB----------BBBBBB-----HHHHHHHHHHH---BBBB 2\'92\
B---HHHHHHHHHH---BBBB--BBBB----BBBBB-------HHHHHHHHH----BBBB Jpred4\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f4\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 The prediction matches the secondary structure in a similarly successful way as described earlier. Overall, yes the prediction does match the actual structure.
\f3\fs18 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa40\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 	-What is the % identity for this region \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b0 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Using the same metric as earlier, this has 22.9% identity\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf0 \ulnone 	-What is the function of conserved residues in this region (if any?) \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b0 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 I could not identify a function for these conserved residues. Since they are not a part of the active site, we can guess that the residues are conserved because they maintain the general shape and form of the protein by keeping secondary structure in tact, providing important tertiary interactions, or providing an interface for another subunit (this protein is a homodimer).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf0 \ulnone 	-How did you find this out?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b0 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 After reading the papers from before, I saw no mention of specific mention of these residues. The crystallography paper mentioned there are 9 hydrogen bonds uniting the subunits, but does not specify which residues participate in those bonds.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf0 \ulnone  SEQUENCE ALIGNMENT (most divergent -> least divergent, structure sequence \ul last)\
\ls1\ilvl0\ulnone \'95 QUESTIONS \
1) How does the predicted secondary structure compare to the actual secondary structure? 
\f0\b0 \ul For the conserved region, 81.4%. For the diverse region, 83.3%.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \ulnone 2) Do you think that this is a good, useless or harmful level of correctness? Why?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b0 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 I believe this is a good predicted level of correctness. There were no mistakes between alpha helices and beta sheets. The only mistakes were 1) when exactly the feature starts/ends or 2) mis-registering small features that were 2-4 residues in length. These mistakes seem very understandable, especially coming from a quick computation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf0 \ulnone 3) Explain why you think the prediction program performed in this way?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa100\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b0 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 For mistake 1 (see earlier answer), the prediction program may have counted a residue as part of a turn/loop when really it was still part of the secondary structure because in reality, the residue may be partly part of the secondary structure but partly the start of a turn/loop. For mistake 2, the prediction program might not characterize such a small feature as a secondary structure. This is especially understandable for the S120-Q122 alpha helix, which seems hard to predict because it takes several residues to reach the point where the helix is cooperative (past the point of nucleation).}